>> Kent C. Dodds: The solution for this
is remarkably similar to the registration
experience.
And actually normally in an application,
I would not have two
tests that are doing all this stuff,
it's basically the same thing.
If I really wanted to, maybe I'd
abstract this test away and just call
a function with a couple parameters
to change a couple of those things.
But what I probably do is just test one
of them and then test the other one
to make sure that at least you can get to
the login screen or something like that.
Cuz yeah,
these are all using exact same components,
they're very similar to each other.
And that said, like it's not really
expensive once you have the test
to keep it around so that's it's sixes.
Testing is just so loosy goosy.
So before each one,
we're gonna initialize our application,
setup the state that we need, and then
we'll render our app with the router so
it has React router context all built in.
We could start at a particular route say,
oops, route is log-in.
That's part of the abstraction
that I showed you earlier from
the client-test-utils.
But I kinda have actually clicking and
going to the route,
make sure I have my route
configuration set up properly.
So, that's what I'm going with here.
We wait for things to finish loading,
so back in that abstraction here.
Finish loading is using the wait
abstraction which just waits until this no
longer throws an error and so
we expect the loading to be null.
So once that query returns something
that's null then we'll be good to go.
Actually, as kind of a part of this,
we could change this a little
bit to the getByText.
And then we could actually
remove the whole expectation cuz
this will actually throw an error also.
And so, well actually no,
that's the inverse.
So, yeah I guess that's why I
had to does the expect, but
I just wanted to point out that
all of the getBy APIs have
a queryBy which is actually
what they're built on top of.
And that queryBy will return
null whereas the getBy will
throw an error if they
can't find anything, okay?
So once the loading is gone,
then we'll click on the login and
with the left click,
thank you React router].
And we'll make sure that we've
navigated to the other page, and
then we'll generate a fake user.
We don't care what the username
password is, we'll get the username and
password fields in the form and
we'll set those values.
And then we'll submit the form, but
before we do we need to prepare Axios so
that it's mocked in such
a way to return the data that we want
it to return when the post is called.
And so we set that up with our fake user.
We generate a token for that fake user and
then return or resolve with
data that has an object or that
is an object with the user property that
consists of the fake user and the token.
And then we simulate a submit.
Alternatively, and maybe better,
it would be better to
actually load this into the DOM and
then click on the submit button.
So you could do that either way.
Danny at told me that this simulate
thing from React DOM test-utils is
as overly complicated and
we probably shouldn't be using it.
Old habits die hard, I guess.
So yeah, you might want to just
load this into the DOM and
then do actual quick events on there.
The only reason you actually have to do
that is because the way React does event
handling, it uses event delegation and
attaches a single event handler for
every event type on the body or
on the document.
And then any event will bubble
up all the way through that and
then it can send things off
to where it's supposed to go.
Event delegation was really popular back
in jQuery days for performance reasons.
I'm pretty sure that it's not
really a problem any more,
browsers are a lot faster.
Preact, for example,
does not do any of the delegation,
it just attaches directly to those nodes.
And so, eventually, maybe React
will remove its event delegation or
at least it will only attach things to
the root node that you're rendering.
That would be really great and
then we wouldn't have to worry about
putting things in the document.
But for now that's what we have to do.
Okay, so then, oops,
after we submit we're gonna wait for
all of the requests to finish and
we finish loading, that loading goes away.
And then, we ensure that the post
on our axiosMock was called once.
And that was called with auth-login and
the fake user and then we verify that
our logic to get the user in a login
in state was actually worked.
So, we now have the token
in local storage,
we're not on the login page anymore and
the username display shows
our fake user's username and
that the logout button exists.
Okay, so that's that,
any questions about integration testing,
UI, or React applications, yes?
>> Speaker 2: I was kinda wondering for
both this test and last test,
we checked that it wasn't on the login
page or the registration page anymore.
Is there a good way and
we're just checking string for that.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah,
I think we could probably check that the,
let's see, href,
let's console log this,
window.location.href and
I think we need to run app login.
So yeah, we could just say, 2b,
expect, oops, there we go.
And actually, it is only that
because I've configured it to be so.
If we got to adjust configuration
>> Kent C. Dodds: Maybe it's in,
there it is.
Test environments URL, so
that's why it is what that is,
but if you say 2b,
then it couldn't also be login.
So you could do that just as well,
I wouldn't have any problem with that.
That's actually better,
it's more specific to what we want,
any other questions or concerns?
Okay so, one person asked
me during the break to talk
about testing a failure case.
So, what if the log in fails?
So, and how would you go about doing that?
So, you could simulate a failed
request right here with this mock
implementation you say promise or reject.
May be the server sends
an error message or
something like that,
whatever it takes for that to happen.
And then you have to
check the error messages displayed
properly or whatever's happening.
So, maybe you'd still wait finish
loading and then you dissent that,
the error message is displayed and
what not.
I might do one of those and then if there
are a bunch of different other edge cases
like that I'd move that down closer
to the unit test because otherwise,
you wind up testing the same thing a lot.
You're testing, loading the whole app,
and finish loading, and all that stuff,
all over, over and over and over again.
Generally, I kinda stick with the happy
path, and then for the higher level tests,
and then when I get to edge cases, then I
go down further as far as is reasonable.